ggShinyApp
==========

This R Shiny application is designed customize graphing themes for [ggplot2](http://ggplot2.org/). Once the theme is customized to your liking, you can download an R script to distribute to any R users in your organization. The main script is `ggplot_styling.R`, which must be run once per R session in order to set custom themes for all ggplot graphs. `installation_script.R` needs to be run once per user (it installs packages and pulls in system fonts).

This application can be run two ways, either locally on your computer or as a hosted shinyapp.

####Running locally

#####To install:
- Run the following commands in your R terminal/ environment.

```
install.packages(c('shiny','ggplot2','reshape2','RColorBrewer','plyr','stringr','extrafont'))
library(extrafont)
font_import()
loadfonts()
```

- Clone this repository, and set your R working directory to the cloned repo's parent directory.
- In R, run `runApp('ggShinyApp')` to launch the app.

#####To run:
- The application will open in your browser. You can use the tabs, drop down menus, and other inputs to customize the example ggplot.
- When you're happy with the theme, use the download links to download the customization scripts.

####Running hosted version
You can see a hosted version of the app at [https://bchartoff.shinyapps.io/ggShinyApp/](https://bchartoff.shinyapps.io/ggShinyApp/). This version functions the same as the local version with one exception, it **does not import your local system fonts** (or any fonts, actually). If you'd like to change fonts with your theme you can either:
- use the local version, or
- download the script generated by the hosted version, and manually change the `theme_update()` function from, for example:
```
axis.text = element_text(family = NULL...
```
to
```
axis.text = element_text(family = "Arial"...
``` 

I'm open to issues, pull requests, or comments!

